Release/318.0.0 (#5435)
MetaMask/core: packages/multichain/CHANGELOG.md

  - The CAIP-25 caveat specification now also validates if non-evm scopes and accounts are supported
- **BREAKING**: The `wallet_getSession` handler now expects `getNonEvmSupportedMethods` to be provided in it's hooks. ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
  - The handler now resolves methods for non-evm scopes in the returned `sessionScopes` result
- **BREAKING**: The `wallet_invokeMethod` handler now expects `getNonEvmSupportedMethods` and `handleNonEvmRequestForOrigin` to be provided in it's hooks. `handleNonEvmRequestForOrigin` should be a function with the following signature:
  - ```
     handleNonEvmRequestForOrigin: (params: {
       connectedAddresses: CaipAccountId[];
       scope: CaipChainId;
       request: JsonRpcRequest;
     }) => Promise<Json>;

>     ```

Author: Thanks for all the suggestion, I was a bit unsure of how to handle these missing PR links in each of the entries because of how they were initially formatted, but was hesitant to commit to a change!

addressed in https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5435/commits/05fc200b3c17ba98796b16e0c8392605c5863d43

  - The handler now supports handling non-evm requests
- **BREAKING**: `assertScopeSupported()` now expects the following hooks params object as it's last param:
  - ```
      {
       isChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
       isEvmChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
       isNonEvmScopeSupported: (scope: CaipChainId) => boolean;
       getNonEvmSupportedMethods: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
     }

>     ```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5435/commits/05fc200b3c17ba98796b16e0c8392605c5863d43

- **BREAKING**: `assertScopesSupported()` now expects the following hooks params object as it's last param:
  - ```
      {
       isChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
       isEvmChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
       isNonEvmScopeSupported: (scope: CaipChainId) => boolean;
       getNonEvmSupportedMethods: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
     }
    ```
- **BREAKING**: `bucketScopes()` now expects the following hooks params object as it's last param:
  - ```
      {
         isEvmChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
         isEvmChainIdSupportable: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
         isNonEvmScopeSupported: (scope: CaipChainId) => boolean;
         getNonEvmSupportedMethods: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
     }

>     ```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5435/commits/05fc200b3c17ba98796b16e0c8392605c5863d43

- **BREAKING**: `bucketScopesBySupport()` now expects the following hooks params object as it's last param:
  - ```
      {
         isEvmChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
         isNonEvmScopeSupported: (scope: CaipChainId) => boolean;
         getNonEvmSupportedMethods: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
     }

>     ```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5435/commits/05fc200b3c17ba98796b16e0c8392605c5863d43

> - **BREAKING**: `getSessionScopes()` now expects a hooks object as its last param. The hooks object should have a `getNonEvmSupportedMethods` property whose value should be a function that accepts a `CaipChainId` and returns an array of supported methods.

Author: addressed in https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5435/commits/05fc200b3c17ba98796b16e0c8392605c5863d43

- **BREAKING**: `isSupportedScopeString()` now expects the a hooks params object as it's last param with the following properties:
  - ```
      {
         isEvmChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
         isNonEvmScopeSupported: (scope: CaipChainId) => boolean;
     }

>     ```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5435/commits/05fc200b3c17ba98796b16e0c8392605c5863d43

- **BREAKING**: `isSupportedAccount()` now expects the a hooks params object as it's last param with the following properties:
  - ```
      {
         getEvmInternalAccounts: () => { type: string; address: Hex }[];
         getNonEvmAccountAddresses: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
     }

>     ```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5435/commits/05fc200b3c17ba98796b16e0c8392605c5863d43

- **BREAKING**: `isSupportedMethod()` now expects the a hooks params object as it's last param with the following properties:
  - ```
      {
         getNonEvmSupportedMethods: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
     }

>     ```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5435/commits/05fc200b3c17ba98796b16e0c8392605c5863d43

- **BREAKING**: The `wallet_getSession` handler now expects `getNonEvmSupportedMethods` to be provided in it's hooks. ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
  - The handler now resolves methods for non-evm scopes in the returned `sessionScopes` result
- **BREAKING**: The `wallet_invokeMethod` handler now expects `getNonEvmSupportedMethods` and `handleNonEvmRequestForOrigin` to be provided in it's hooks. ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))

  - `handleNonEvmRequestForOrigin` should be a function with the following signature:
    ```
     handleNonEvmRequestForOrigin: (params: {
       connectedAddresses: CaipAccountId[];
       scope: CaipChainId;
       request: JsonRpcRequest;
     }) => Promise<Json>;
    ```

- **BREAKING**: `assertScopeSupported()` now expects a new hooks object as its last param ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
  - The new hooks object is:
    ```
    {
      isChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
      isEvmChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
      isNonEvmScopeSupported: (scope: CaipChainId) => boolean;

>       getNonEvmSupportedMethods: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
>     }
>     ```
> - **BREAKING**: `assertScopesSupported()` now expects a new hooks object as its last param ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
>   - The new hooks object is:
>     ```
>     {
>       isChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
>       isEvmChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
>       isNonEvmScopeSupported: (scope: CaipChainId) => boolean;
>       getNonEvmSupportedMethods: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
>     }
>     ```
> - **BREAKING**: `bucketScopes()` now expects a new hooks object as its last param ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
>   - The new hooks object is:
>     ```
>     {
>       isEvmChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
>       isEvmChainIdSupportable: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
>       isNonEvmScopeSupported: (scope: CaipChainId) => boolean;
>       getNonEvmSupportedMethods: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
>     }
>     ```
> - **BREAKING**: `bucketScopesBySupport()` now expects a new hooks object as its last param ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
>   - The new hooks object is:
>     ```
>     {
>       isEvmChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
>       isNonEvmScopeSupported: (scope: CaipChainId) => boolean;
>       getNonEvmSupportedMethods: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
>     }
>     ```
> - **BREAKING**: `getSessionScopes()` now expects a hooks object as its last param. The hooks object should have a `getNonEvmSupportedMethods` property whose value should be a function that accepts a `CaipChainId` and returns an array of supported methods. ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
> - **BREAKING**: `isSupportedScopeString()` now expects a new hooks object as its last param ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
>   - The new hooks object is:
>     ```
>     {
>       isEvmChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
>       isNonEvmScopeSupported: (scope: CaipChainId) => boolean;
>     }
>     ```
> - **BREAKING**: `isSupportedAccount()` now expects a new hooks object as its last param ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
>   - The new hooks object is:
>     ```
>     {
>       getEvmInternalAccounts: () => { type: string; address: Hex }[];
>       getNonEvmAccountAddresses: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
>     }
>     ```
> - **BREAKING**: `isSupportedMethod()` now expects a new hooks object as its last param:
>   - The new hooks object is:
>     ```
>     {
>       getNonEvmSupportedMethods: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
>     }
>     ```
> - Added `wallet_invokeMethod` handler now supports non-EVM requests ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
> - Added `wallet_getPermissions` handler (originally migrated from extension repo) ([#5420](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5420))
> - Added `wallet_requestPermissions` handler (originally migrated from extension repo) ([#5420](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5420))
> - Added `wallet_revokePermissions` handler (originally migrated from extension repo) ([#5420](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5420))

Reviewer: nit: Should the last entries be grouped under `### Added` instead? I'm leaving the one related to `wallet_invokeMethod` under `Changed` since it looks like it was already there

```suggestion
### Added

- Added `wallet_getPermissions` handler (originally migrated from extension repo) ([#5420](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5420))
- Added `wallet_requestPermissions` handler (originally migrated from extension repo) ([#5420](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5420))
- Added `wallet_revokePermissions` handler (originally migrated from extension repo) ([#5420](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5420))

### Changed

- **BREAKING**: `getSessionScopes()` now expects an additional hooks object as its last param. The hooks object should have a `getNonEvmSupportedMethods` property whose value should be a function that accepts a `CaipChainId` and returns an array of supported methods. ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
- **BREAKING**: `caip25CaveatBuilder()` now expects two additional properties it's singular param object. The param object should now also have a `isNonEvmScopeSupported` property whose value should be a function that accepts a `CaipChainId` and returns a boolean, and a `getNonEvmAccountAddresses` property whose value should be a function that accepts a `CaipChainId` and returns an array of CAIP-10 account addresses. ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
  - The CAIP-25 caveat specification now also validates if non-evm scopes and accounts are supported
- **BREAKING**: The `wallet_getSession` handler now expects `getNonEvmSupportedMethods` to be provided in it's hooks. ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
  - The handler now resolves methods for non-evm scopes in the returned `sessionScopes` result
- **BREAKING**: The `wallet_invokeMethod` handler now expects `getNonEvmSupportedMethods` and `handleNonEvmRequestForOrigin` to be provided in it's hooks. ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))

  - `handleNonEvmRequestForOrigin` should be a function with the following signature:
    ```
     handleNonEvmRequestForOrigin: (params: {
       connectedAddresses: CaipAccountId[];
       scope: CaipChainId;
       request: JsonRpcRequest;
     }) => Promise<Json>;
    ```
- **BREAKING**: `assertScopeSupported()` now expects a new hooks object as its last param ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
  - The new hooks object is:
    ```
    {
      isChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
      isEvmChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
      isNonEvmScopeSupported: (scope: CaipChainId) => boolean;
      getNonEvmSupportedMethods: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
    }
    ```
- **BREAKING**: `assertScopesSupported()` now expects a new hooks object as its last param ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
  - The new hooks object is:
    ```
    {
      isChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
      isEvmChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
      isNonEvmScopeSupported: (scope: CaipChainId) => boolean;
      getNonEvmSupportedMethods: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
    }
    ```
- **BREAKING**: `bucketScopes()` now expects a new hooks object as its last param ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
  - The new hooks object is:
    ```
    {
      isEvmChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
      isEvmChainIdSupportable: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
      isNonEvmScopeSupported: (scope: CaipChainId) => boolean;
      getNonEvmSupportedMethods: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
    }
    ```
- **BREAKING**: `bucketScopesBySupport()` now expects a new hooks object as its last param ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
  - The new hooks object is:
    ```
    {
      isEvmChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
      isNonEvmScopeSupported: (scope: CaipChainId) => boolean;
      getNonEvmSupportedMethods: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
    }
    ```
- **BREAKING**: `getSessionScopes()` now expects a hooks object as its last param. The hooks object should have a `getNonEvmSupportedMethods` property whose value should be a function that accepts a `CaipChainId` and returns an array of supported methods. ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
- **BREAKING**: `isSupportedScopeString()` now expects a new hooks object as its last param ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
  - The new hooks object is:
    ```
    {
      isEvmChainIdSupported: (chainId: Hex) => boolean;
      isNonEvmScopeSupported: (scope: CaipChainId) => boolean;
    }
    ```
- **BREAKING**: `isSupportedAccount()` now expects a new hooks object as its last param ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
  - The new hooks object is:
    ```
    {
      getEvmInternalAccounts: () => { type: string; address: Hex }[];
      getNonEvmAccountAddresses: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
    }
    ```
- **BREAKING**: `isSupportedMethod()` now expects a new hooks object as its last param:
  - The new hooks object is:
    ```
    {
      getNonEvmSupportedMethods: (scope: CaipChainId) => string[];
    }
    ```
- The `wallet_invokeMethod` handler now supports non-EVM requests ([#5191](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/5191))
```
